A statistical analysis has shown that there has been a steady rise in the accidents and the number of people killed in those every year has been very high and rising per year.

There are more than a few reasons being the rise, however, couple of reasons may be more valid or important than other. One of the foremost reasons for high number of accidents is drunk driving. And the cases of it are rising by the day, mostly in North India. This is also due to the fact that drinking is part of the life culture in this part of India. Another important reasons for accidents and people killed is scanty traffic sense and not following of traffic rules like overrunning the traffic signals, not wearing protective gear while driving. 

Government has been taking actions and bringing in solutions to prevent such incidents in the future. One of them is patrolling of the roads by the traffic police. People found driving while being drunk are penalised and frequent flouters of the norms are given stricter punishments like cancellation of license and hefty monetary fines. Similar actions are taken against people disregarding the traffic rules. People found driving without seat belts and helmets are punished with penalty and / or cancellation of driving license. Some other solutions are to make people aware of the repercussions of defying the norms like showing the gory images of ghastly mishaps, meetings with the families of the dead, advertisements in radio, putting up of banners on road, arrangements of street plays and government is already doing few of these.

But at the end of the day, it is not just government who has to action, it is in the hands of the people on the roads to take care of the traffic rules. Change in the attitude and imbibing the sense in the children while growing up and bring them up as more responsible citizens is more important since they are the future and since they learn from the seniors, it is the duty of the grown ups to stick to the rules. This is for the benefit of the entire society as a whole.     